Captain Marvel Origins

Orphaned and homeless on the streets of Fawcett City, young Billy Batson was drawn by a shadowy figure into an abandoned subway station. There he found a strange train, bringing him to the Rock of Eternity. Past the statues of the Seven Deadly Enemies of Man (alias the Seven Deadly Sins), Billy came to a stone chair and brazier which, when lit, summoned the spirit of the wizard Shazam! The old wizard offered Billy the opportunity to do good and become a champion of justice. “Speak my name,” he told him and so Billy Batson uttered the fateful magic word… “SHAZAM!” and was transformed by a bolt of lightning, into Captain Marvel, the World’s Mightiest Mortal.

Captain Marvel quickly confronted the forces of evil in the world, including Theo Adam, the man who murdered his parents when possessed by the previous wielder of Shazam’s power, Black Adam. His other foes include the mad scientist Doctor Sivana (who calls Captain Marvel “the Big Red Cheese”), the diminutive but dangerous Mister Mind—an intelligent worm from another planet—and his Monster Society of Evil, and the nuclear robot Mister Atom.

Captain Marvel also gained a number of allies in his fight for justice. Billy Batson was reunited with his twin sister, Mary, who likewise gained the powers of Shazam and the identity Mary Marvel. Together they rescued young Freddy Freeman. In the process of saving his life, he was infused with the power of his hero: by saying the name “Captain Marvel” he was transformed into the young Captain Marvel, Jr. The “Marvel Family” also included Billy and Mary’s Uncle Dudley (who adopted the costumed, but non-powered, identity of “Uncle Marvel”) and Talky Tawny, a humanoid talking tiger.

The letters of the wizard Shazam’s name stand for the elders who grant Captain Marvel his power: the wisdom of Solomon, the strength of Hercules, the stamina of Atlas, the power of Zeus, the courage of Achilles, and the speed of Mercury. Captain Marvel is indeed the World’s Mightiest Mortal, a rival to Superman in terms of strength, speed, and durability. Given the magical nature of his powers, the good Captain has even been able to best the Man of Steel on occasion, although the two are otherwise evenly matched.