Sinestro Origins

An anthropologist on the planet Korugar in space sector 1417, Sinestro encountered the dying Green Lantern Prohl Gosgotha while unearthing the ruins of a longdead civilization. Gosgotha gave his power ring to Sinestro, who used it to fight the Green Lantern’s pursuer, one of the Weaponers of Qward. After he defeated the Weaponer (crushing the ruins he was restoring in the process), Sinestro learned Gosgotha was still alive. Rather than return his power ring to allow him to survive long enough for help to arrive, Sinestro chose to keep it and allow Gosgotha to die, taking his place in the Green Lantern Corps.

Initially, Sinestro performed extremely well as a Green Lantern. His desire to forge order out of chaos and his dedication to the Corps earned him a reputation as one of the greatest Green Lanterns. Over time, however, he became more and more obsessed with imposing order, to the point where he decided the best way to do so was to simply conquer Korugar, setting himself up as absolute dictator.

Sinestro was assigned to train novice Green Lantern Hal Jordan from space sector 2814, who bristled at his instructor’s authoritarian and rigid attitudes. In the process of helping Sinestro defend Korugar from invasion by the Khunds, Jordan summoned other Green Lanterns for aid, exposing Sinestro’s conquest of his home world. The Guardians of the Universe stripped Sinestro of his power ring and exiled him to the world of Qward in the anti-matter universe, believing it would teach him humility.

Instead, Sinestro forged an alliance with the Weaponers of Qward and acquired a yellow power ring, returning to the positive-matter universe to destroy Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps. After numerous clashes with his archenemy, Sinestro was eventually captured and sentenced to death for his crimes. He managed to survive by sending his essence into the Central Power Battery on Oa, where he learned the nature of the emotional spectrum, and the source of the “yellow impurity” in the Green Lanterns’ power rings: the fear entity Parallax.

Sinestro engineered Parallax’s possession of Hal Jordan, corrupting and bringing down the “greatest Green Lantern” as part of his revenge. He eventually freed himself from the Central Battery on Oa and returned to the anti-matter universe, where he founded the Sinestro Corps: offering yellow power rings to the most fearsome and vicious criminals in the universe. He led his corps in a war against the Green Lanterns, ultimately defeated by Kyle Rayner and his old foe, Hal Jordan. Still, Sinestro claimed the measures undertaken by the Guardians of the Universe to fight his Corps—namely permitting Green Lanterns to employ lethal force—were only making the Green Lantern Corps more like his own, enforcing order through fear throughout the cosmos.

Sentenced to death once again, Sinestro escaped due to the intervention of his own Corps and the Red Lanterns, who sought to capture him for their leader, Atrocitus. Blue Lantern Saint Walker claimed Sinestro’s survival was vital for stopping the coming of the Blackest Night, and the master of the yellow light of fear proved instrumental as part of the alliance against the Black Lanterns and their master, Nekron.