Superman Origins

Rocketed from the dying planet of Krypton by his parents Jor-El and Lara, the infant Kal-El was found and adopted by Jonathan and Martha Kent of Smallville, Kansas. They named him “Clark” after Martha Kent’s maiden name and raised him as their own son.

The Last Son of Krypton developed amazing powers under Earth’s yellow sun: superhuman strength, speed, senses, and invulnerability among them. His adoptive parents taught him to use his powers responsibly, so the teenaged Clark Kent helped people in secret, wearing a colorful costume made from the blankets found in his escape rocket, and bearing the family crest of the House of El, to help conceal his true identity. He also took to wearing glasses made from the rocket’s lenses to better separate “mild-mannered” Clark Kent from his costumed alter ego.

Clark’s secret adventures came to an end when he moved to Metropolis to begin working as a reporter at the Daily Planet, the perfect place to find out about disasters as they happened. His very public rescue of reporter Lois Lane and photographer Jimmy Olsen splashed his image across front pages and television screens everywhere. Lois coined the name “Superman” for her mysterious rescuer (based on the similarity of his shield to the letter “S”) and scored the first exclusive interview with the Man of Steel, in which he revealed his true extraterrestrial origins to the world.

Since then, Superman has been the favorite son of Metropolis and become renowned as the world’s greatest hero, known throughout the galaxy and beyond. He has also garnered a considerable gallery of foes, starting with Metropolis magnate Lex Luthor, who considered the alien hero a threat to his position of most powerful man in the city and an obstacle to his own considerable ambitions. Luthor has attempted to co-opt or destroy Superman on numerous occasions, often from behind the façade of “humble philanthropist.” The Man of Steel’s other foes include the computer intelligence Brainiac, the mechanical Metallo (powered by a piece of kryptonite), his imperfect duplicate, Bizarro, and the twisted Toyman, to name a few. Perhaps his most deadly foe is Doomsday, a living weapon from Krypton’s distant past, who once killed Superman in single combat (although Kryptonian technology was later able to revive him).

Fortunately, Superman has no lack of friends. After romantically flirting for some time, he eventually revealed his true identity to Lois Lane and proposed. Both Clark and Superman are well known to the rest of the staff at the Daily Planet, including editor Perry White and photographer Jimmy Olsen. Superman is widely respected by the world’s heroes, and a regular member of the Justice League of America.

Kal-El also discovered he is not the sole survivor of Krypton. There is his cousin, Kara, who joined the “family business” as Supergirl, the various criminals consigned to the Phantom Zone, and the inhabitants of the Kryptonian city of Kandor, shrunken and stolen from Krypton by Brainiac. There’s even Kal-El’s childhood pet, Krypto the Superdog, sent out into space as an early test of the rocket that brought him to Earth and later reunited with his beloved master. Superman’s Kryptonian heritage is preserved in his arctic Fortress of Solitude, including various relics and technology from that vanished world.