The Flash Origins

Barry Allen developed a reputation for taking things slowly early in life, to the bemusement and occasional frustration of friends, family, and his fiancée, fast-acting journalist Iris West. Barry’s proclivity for deliberation and detail did make him an excellent forensic scientist for the Central City Police Department, known for his ability to crack difficult cases.

Barry was working late one night in his lab when a bolt of lightning crashed through the window, striking a shelf of chemicals. Bathed in the electrified chemicals, he gained the power of super-speed, which he discovered when he raced on foot after a departing cab, only to find himself rushing past it! He adopted the identity of the Flash, inspired by his childhood hero Jay Garrick, and created a unique crimson costume able to compress down to fit into a tiny compartment in a ring he wore.

The Flash fought crime in the twin cities of Central and Keystone for some years, eventually marrying Iris West and working with his idol and inspiration, Jay Garrick, the original Flash. He was a founding member of the Justice League of America and a mainstay of the team. He also garnered a considerable assortment of foes, including the Rogues, a team composed of Captain Cold, the Trickster, Weather Wizard, Mirror Master, and Captain Boomerang. Among the Flash’s greatest enemies were the future magician Abra Kadabra, the super-intelligent Gorilla Grodd, and Professor Zoom, the so-called “Reverse Flash” from the 25th century.

Professor Zoom apparently murdered Iris Allen and, some time later, attempted to do the same to Barry’s new fiancée Fiona Webb. Desperate to prevent history from repeating itself, the Flash broke Professor Zoom’s neck, killing him. Barry later learned Iris was born in the 30th century, sent to live in the past by her parents, and restored from death in that same future.

The Flash had his own experience with death when he sacrificed himself to save the multiverse from the Anti- Monitor, merging with the Speed Force like many speedsters before him. By the time he eventually returned, his protégé, Wally West, had taken up the mantle of the Flash, and his grandson and namesake Bartholomew “Bart” Allen (born in the 30th century) was the new Kid Flash.